# Part 4: Styling

## index.css and custom CSS files

I typically put all of my styling code in the index.css file within the css folder. However, you can also include external CSS files within that file. For example, if i had separate navigation code, I could import it like this:

```
@import "nav.css";
```
This can be helpful for including pre-styled templates.

## styling our page
I would definitely refer to the [W3 Schools CSS Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp) for an intro to CSS, but I suggest a few small tips for sanity:

#### Vertical Centering
This is always very difficult to do. I typically get around this by adding spacer elements of equal size when I want to center anything:

```
.spacer {
  height: 10em;
}
```

Then you add a class tag to whatever div you want to be the spacer, as such:

```
<div class="spacer"></div>
<div id="content">
Content that is centered vertically will be here.
</div>
<div class="spacer"></div>

```

Note that there are more "elegant" ways to do this. However, it requires a full understanding of how different CSS styling options work, like display (block, inline, etc) as well as margins and padding.


#### Bootstrap help

Bootstrap also provides great CSS classes for things like margins, padding, centering, rouding borders, etc. W3 Schools has a [great page on this](https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap4/bootstrap_utilities.asp) that I recommend taking a look at. They often solve a lot of problems.


#### Full-size image backgrounds and overlays

I typically tell people to create divs, and set the image as the background of the div (instead of including the image) If you want to have an image as a background, like this:
```
.splash {
  background: url("../img/splash-bg.jpg") no-repeat, black;
  background-size: cover;
  background-color: black !important;
  background-repeat: repeat;
  margin-bottom: 0px !important;
}
```

> ### Side note: ```!important;```
> Another thing I suggest is using the ```!important;``` property for things that do not seem to take effect. CSS will use the most specific styling, whether that be on the id or class level, and often times if you define these properties with classes, they will not be more specific than the bootstrap classes, and these styling rules will not take effect.



## quick animations

To add animations easily, I suggest using the Animate on Scroll ([AOS](https://michalsnik.github.io/aos/)) Library. It allows for very cool animations on scroll with very little work.

However, I also wanted to add some animations to the social media links, so I did a bit of CSS magic on hover for each of the sections, like this:

```
.instagram {
  transition: background-color 1s 0s;
  transition: background 1.2s 0s;
}

.instagram:hover {
  color: white;
  background: url("../img/instagram.png") no-repeat,  var(--instagram-pink);
  background-position: 10% 0%;
  background-size: 100px auto;
  font-weight: bold;
  transition: 1s;
  left: 0;
}
```
This required doing two things: Defining a transition mode and a hover style. The transition mode was a simple fade in for the colors, and the hover style allowed for a left slide in by setting background position to change upon hover.

At the end of the day, [google is your best friend](www.google.com), and there's probably a stackoverflow or similar blog answer for your questions. Thats probably how I figured out how to do this.


whew... glad thats over. [time for dynamic content!](5.Dynamic_Content.md)
